Finally,
let's talk about how to represent some different common
data types inside your JSON document.
When I talk about common data types, I mean things like dates,
times, and currency values.
Values that can be common across different endpoints or file
types that use JSON to encode their values.
We will be using dates as an example here to show how five
principles should be applied to represent these types.
One of the main advantages of JSON as a protocol is its readability,
but in order to ensure that messages are actually debuggable,
you need to be able to read the values within them.
Consider the two representations here of a Java local date.
First, is the default representation Jackson will provide to you.
That's the version with the braces at the beginning
and end and the field value pairs.
The second is an ISO 8601 standard string encoding of the local date.
I'm sure you'll agree it's a lot easier to read and a lot easier to understand,
and will help you if you're debugging the messages.
Then there's consistency.
Keep a consistent representation throughout the API.
This enables both producers and consumers of JSON to use common
code in order to process these data types.
It also means that anyone reading the messages in a debugging scenario
doesn't need to remember multiple data type representations.
Sometimes,
we want to represent data types in Java code that JSON has a
built-in representation for For example,
numbers or lists/arrays.
Where and ever possible,
these should be encoded using the representation
that JSON provides to each other.
For example, encoding numbers as actually numbers rather than strings.
This helps the tooling do a lot more of your work for you.
For example,
by returning numbers that actually get parsed out of the JSON documents
rather than a string that you then have to parse yourself.
The same principle applies to lists and arrays.
Use JSON's built-in array literal syntax rather than
trying to NIH your own representation.
So let's go back to that date encoding example again.
Another problem that it demonstrates is lack of portability.
If you take a Java object and just auto-serialize it to JSON,
one of the downsides can often be that it exposes the internal
implementation details of the Java object in question.
This ties the protocol to a specific implementation that other
systems rely on and makes it harder to alter the internal
representation of the objects in question.
For example,
by using a different date and time library or by re-implementing your backend
service in a different programming language other than Java,
or perhaps by porting it to Java from another language.
These are all choices that you want to keep abstract
of your protocol representation.
Finally, there's size.
Large JSON objects take more time to send over the
wire and consume more bandwidth.
Less is more.
This increases the infrastructure costs, if you have bigger objects.
And slow software has a poor user experience, making your users unhappy.
Again, going back to the example of dates,
our simple string-based encoding is much,
much smaller than the equivalent default JSON encoding and
will help reduce the bandwidth used.
In most situations,
the costs of your developer's time is higher than the cost of infrastructure,
so you shouldn't be prioritizing size at the expense of readability
or any of the other properties we've mentioned.
In many cases, you can find representations that are a win in both cases, as this date and time encoding demonstrates.